[Docs] Refresh DEX Philosophy (#5933)
elastic/detection-rules: PHILOSOPHY.md

## Core Principles

### Detections are never done

Threats change, data sources evolve, and attackers adapt. Every detection in this repository needs continuous tuning, measurement, and improvement. Shipping a rule is the start of its lifecycle, not the end.

### Quality is holistic

A detection is more than a query that fires. Quality encompasses purposeful rule context and intentional behavior detection: confirmed behavior matching, severity and risk scoring, ATT&CK mapping, investigation guidance, highlighted fields, enrichment fields, and documentation of what the rule detects, what it misses, and its known limitations. This enables a full analyst experience. A smaller set of well-documented rules is worth more than a large set of noisy, brittle ones.

### Coverage is about depth, not count

> A single rule mapped to a technique does not mean that technique is "covered." True coverage means understanding the technique's variants, the telemetry required to observe them, the evasion paths available to attackers, and the gaps that remain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A single rule mapped to a technique does not mean that technique is "covered." True coverage means understanding the technique's variants, the telemetry required to observe them, surrounding security controls and infrastructure, the evasion paths available to attackers, and the gaps that remain.
```

> ### If you can detect it, you can test it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Trusted and tested
```

> A detection that does not function correctly is a liability. Every rule should be accompanied by evidence that it fires correctly, whether through emulation, simulation, or representative log samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A detection that does not function correctly is a liability. Every rule should be accompanied by evidence that it fires correctly and models scoped threat behavior, whether through emulation, simulation, or representative log samples.
```

> A detection that cannot be validated is a detection you cannot trust. Every rule should be accompanied by evidence that it fires correctly, whether through emulation, simulation, or representative log samples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A detection that does not function correctly is a liability. Every rule should be accompanied by evidence that it fires correctly, whether through emulation, simulation, or representative log samples.
```

### Known gaps are better than unknown gaps

> No detection is perfect. Rules should document their known limitations and accepted blind spots. A rule with clearly stated constraints is more trustworthy and maintainable than one with undiscovered weaknesses.

Reviewer 3: In a perfect world, where would we document this? Were you thinking about the rule description?

Author: In our case we have several locations, description, inline in the query, FP section etc.

### Engineered for production

> Detection rules are software that runs in production. They must be performant, maintainable, and effective, not just technically correct. That means lean queries with acceptable execution time, clear logic, documented assumptions, adequate lookback windows and schedules, and active maintenance as schemas and data sources evolve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detection rules are software that run in production. They must be performant, maintainable, and effective, not just technically correct. That means lean queries with acceptable execution time, clear logic, documented assumptions, adequate lookback windows and schedules, and active maintenance as schemas and data sources evolve.
```

### Threat-informed defense drives prioritization

What we build and in what order should be driven by real-world threat intelligence: customer incidents, adversary emulation, emerging campaigns, and telemetry gap analysis. Not by abstract completeness goals.

### Detection and prevention go together

For endpoint protections, the goal is not only to detect a threat but to block it. When possible, the workflow should include verification that an attack is actually prevented once a production rule is merged, not just that the logic triggers an alert.

### The right language for the right job

> Elastic Security supports multiple query languages and rule types, each suited for different detection patterns. New Terms rules surface rare behavior, threshold rules detect frequency-based anomalies, EQL enables event correlation and sequencing, KQL provides flat search across fields, and ES|QL supports advanced analytics. Choosing the right language and rule type for a given technique is as important as writing correct logic.

Reviewer: These could change. Maybe an approach is to state something like the following. I think what we are getting at is, what matters is the logic and there is more than one tool for the job that we have at our disposal?

```suggestion
Elastic Security supports multiple query languages and detection mechanisms, each capable of expressing different analytical patterns. Some detections identify rare or novel behavior, others focus on frequency and threshold-based anomalies, while others rely on event sequencing, correlation, or broad field matching. Advanced analytics enable aggregation, enrichment, and cross-domain reasoning.
```

Author: I like removing the specific languages. will future proof this more

> Elastic Security supports multiple query languages and detection mechanisms, each capable of expressing different analytical patterns. Some detections identify rare or novel behavior, others focus on frequency and threshold-based anomalies, while others rely on event sequencing, correlation, or broad field matching. Advanced analytics enable aggregation, enrichment, and cross-domain reasoning.

Reviewer 3: Maybe one sentence to tie this back to the title of the paragraph (The right language for the right job).

"Choosing the right language for each threat is key."

## Approach

Our goal is to improve detection within Elastic Security while combating alert fatigue. When developing or reviewing a rule, consider these questions:

* What behavior am I detecting?
* What data proves that behavior?
* What assumptions am I making?
* How does an attacker break those assumptions?
* What happens when this fires?

### Behavioral rules

We tend to prefer rules that are more *behavioral* in nature. Behavioral rules focus on the attacker technique, and less on a specific tool or indicator. This may require more research to understand how a technique works, but it does a better job detecting the attacks of today and tomorrow, not just the attacks of yesterday.

### Signatures and indicators

Even though we gravitate towards behavioral or technique-based rules, we don't automatically disqualify a rule because it uses indicators of a specific actor or tool. Though indicator-based detections are typically more brittle, they tend to have less noise and are specifically written to detect exactly one thing. When a tool is used across multiple actors or red teams, a well-scoped signature can go a long way.

### Evasion awareness

> When writing or reviewing a rule, think like an adversary: *How could I perform this action while going undetected by this rule?* Prefer structured fields like parsed arguments over raw command lines, and avoid pattern matching that is trivially bypassed by whitespace, quoting, or encoding changes. When evasions are accepted trade-offs, document them.

Reviewer 3: Again, "document them". In the rule description? Or in the PR?

Author: ill address it earlier where you brought up the point.
